README.md, before:

# 1BRC in Rust

For background, please check out the original project over [here](https://github.com/gunnarmorling/1brc)

This project is to tackle the 1 billion row challenge, aiming to efficiently process and aggregate data from a large dataset consisting of one billion rows.

Although the original challenge is in Java, I wanted to have a go at completing the challenge in rust so I could get some exposure to the profiling tools available in rust. I am already familiar with the profiling tools in Java such as JFRs, heap dumps and async profiles and wanted to know how I could apply this to rust. 

The profiling tool of choice i'm using throughout this project is [flamegraph](https://github.com/flamegraph-rs/flamegraph) as I am comfortable with flamegraphs and async profiles. The original idea was to do this project completely without external libraries but rust makes it quite difficult where most unsafe code requires you to pull in an external crate thus, ill only be pulling in external crates when I am physically unable to access a lower level API because the rust standard library is stopping me.

The profiling section has all the flamegraphs I have accumulated while testing so if you would like to see how I have made progress in my solution, please take a look at the flamegraphs.

## Config
To switch between single and multithreaded, toggle the boolean in config.toml from false to true

## Conclusions
I'm going to stop here for now. I tried to make a multithreaded solution but the compiler has been fighting me about lifetimes for the file which I couldnt find a way around (would appreciate if anyone comes up with a solution, please feel free to open a PR). 

For now, this is my "completed" solution until I figure out a way to make it run faster and how to use the threads in rust directly without lifeline issues. I wasnt able to create the whole measurements.txt file as the JVM OOM when trying to create the file so on my machine for a 10000000 file these are my results:
- Single threaded: 8500 ms (8 seconds)
- Multithreaded (using rayon): 1400 ms (1.4 seconds)

Results when profiling:
- Single threaded: 800 ms (0.8 seconds)
- Multithreaded (using rayon): 180 ms (0.18 seconds)

Not entirely sure why profiling with flamegraph saved a considerable amount of seconds on execution time but think it might be performing some magic behind the scenes to get the application to run faster.

Commit message:

Subject: better readme and making timing more accurate

README.md, after:

# 1BRC in Rust

For background, please check out the original project over [here](https://github.com/gunnarmorling/1brc)

This project is to tackle the 1 billion row challenge, aiming to efficiently process and aggregate data from a large dataset consisting of one billion rows.

Although the original challenge is in Java, I wanted to have a go at completing the challenge in rust so I could get some exposure to the profiling tools available in rust. I am already familiar with the profiling tools in Java such as JFRs, heap dumps and async profiles and wanted to know how I could apply this to rust. 

The profiling tool of choice i'm using throughout this project is [flamegraph](https://github.com/flamegraph-rs/flamegraph) as I am comfortable with flamegraphs and async profiles. The original idea was to do this project completely without external libraries but rust makes it quite difficult where most unsafe code requires you to pull in an external crate thus, ill only be pulling in external crates when I am physically unable to access a lower level API because the rust standard library is stopping me.

The profiling section has all the flamegraphs I have accumulated while testing so if you would like to see how I have made progress in my solution, please take a look at the flamegraphs.

## Config
To switch between single and multithreaded, toggle the boolean in config.toml from false to true

## Conclusions
I'm going to stop here for now. I tried to make a multithreaded solution but the compiler has been fighting me about lifelines for the file which I couldnt find a way around (would appreciate if anyone comes up with a solution, please feel free to open a PR). The benchmarks taken dont include loading config params as thats something I added to make switching between solutions easier. The overhead they add to the app I havent included in the benchmarks and only start the timer before any of the processing code beings. To make this more fair, I open the file and build the hashmap after starting the timer so the only variable not accounted for in my benchmarks is the time taken to load config.

For now, this is my "completed" solution until I figure out a way to make it run faster and how to use the threads in rust directly without lifeline issues. I wasnt able to create the whole measurements.txt file as the JVM OOM when trying to create the file so on my machine for a 10000000 file these are my results:
- Single threaded: 6600 ms (6 seconds)
- Multithreaded (using rayon): 1400 ms (1.4 seconds)

Results when profiling:
- Single threaded: 810 ms (0.81 seconds)
- Multithreaded (using rayon): 180 ms (0.18 seconds)

Not entirely sure why profiling with flamegraph saved a considerable amount of seconds on execution time but think it might be performing some magic behind the scenes to get the application to run faster.
